DocViewer
Page
of 4
ZOOM
Pages
2
Copyright © 2024 Accenture. All rights reserved.
Top six risks include:


Bias & harm:
 
Discriminatory or harmful outcomes, biases or


prejudices can be introduced into artificial intelligence through data,


models or ongoing operations.


Liability & compliance:
 
The litigation and regulatory environment


is dynamic and evolving rapidly. Enterprises must manage this


complexity and potential legal and financial implications including


fines, penalties or other legal action.


Unreliable outputs:
 
Gen AI “hallucinations” have been observed with


widespread adoption. At the most basic level, if a system in unreliable,


no one will use it.


Confidentiality & security:
 
Gen AI introduces new concerns around


how information is protected and how systems are secured against


leaks or breaches.


Sustainability:
 
AI, and especially gen AI, is compute intensive.


AI
 
usage may upend environmental, social and governance (ESG)


decisions around energy efficiency, carbon
 
emissions and cost.


Workplace transition:
 
Since AI can automate job tasks efficiently, people


may raise concerns about jobs being eliminated—especially in the


absence of plans for reskilling and rescoping for new AI-specific roles.


Gen AI is a very different and powerful technology than what


we have seen in the past. It can reinvent the entire enterprise,


impacting every process, every role and every technology within


the digital core. Enterprises must know where and how AI is being


used and the impact on business outcomes and decisions.


Opportunities and challenges


The regulatory landscape is evolving alongside these risks, which


creates new complexity, but yields high-quality, trustworthy AI systems.


The key to closing the responsible AI gap is to embed responsible


practices across the design, development, deployment and scaled


use
 
of gen AI across the enterprise.
2
3
Copyright © 2024 Accenture. All rights reserved.
The journey to an enterprise-level responsible AI program starts with


establishing AI governance and principles
. This means agreeing


and adopting responsible AI principles with clear accountability and


governance for the responsible design, deployment and usage of AI.


With these principles in place, the next step is to
 
conduct AI risk


assessments
 
to understand the risks of an organization’s AI use


cases, applications and systems through qualitative and quantitative


assessments (e.g. fairness, explainability, transparency, accuracy, safety,


human impact, etc).


Then, organizations need
 
systemic enablement for responsible


AI testing
 
to continuously gauge levels of fairness, explainability,


transparency, accuracy, safety and human impact. They should do this


by leveraging best of breed responsible AI tools and technologies and


enable mitigations to scale Responsible AI effectively.


The value of AI can be unlocked only when AI innovation is pursued


within defined guardrails; when it engenders consumer, employee


and stakeholder trust; and when it prioritizes human well-being.


How to approach responsible AI in


your organization


Establish AI


governance


& principles


1
 
2
 
3
 
4


Workforce impact, sustainability,


privacy, security


Conduct


AI risk


assessments


Systemic enablement


for responsible


AI testing


Ongoing


monitoring and


compliance


5


It’s also important to put in place ongoing monitoring of AI


systems and oversight for responsible AI initiatives while executing


mitigation and compliance actions.


Across these activities, a responsible AI compliance program


must engage cross-functionally to address the impact of AI on the


workforce, compliance with laws, sustainability and privacy and


security programs across the enterprise.
3
Copyright © 2024 Accenture. All rights reserved.
4
Copyright © 2024 Accenture. All rights reserved.
4
Copyright © 2024 Accenture. All rights reserved.
4
Copyright © 2024 Accenture. All rights reserved.
______


Human by design:
 
Understand the impact on humans


every time you deploy AI.


______


Fairness:
 
Treat all groups equitably and take action to mitigate


the potential for unwanted bias and other negative,


unintended consequences.


______


Transparency, explainability and accuracy:
 
Disclose the use of


AI where appropriate and make sure anyone can understand and


appropriately evaluate AI outputs and decision-making processes.


______


Safety:
 
Evaluate potential safety concern and take action to mitigate harm.


______


Accountability:
 
Document enterprise-wide governance structures


with clear roles, policies and responsibilities.


______


Compliance, data privacy and cybersecurity:
 
Make sure all use of AI


complies with relevant laws, that data is secured with the appropriate


privacy protection and secure AI from cyber attacks.


______


Sustainability:
 
Deploy AI considering the impact on the planet,


with appropriate steps taken to mitigate negative impacts.


Accenture’s responsible


AI principles


Responsible AI begins with a set of AI governing principles,


which each enterprise adopts and then enforces.


Accenture partnered with the Monetary Authority of
 
Singapore (MAS)


to establish the Veritas financial services industry consortium,


which focuses on trust in AI. A team within Veritas—led by MAS


and Accenture—co-created guidance that helps financial services


institutions evaluate their AI and data analytics solutions against


the principles of fairness, ethics, accountability and transparency.


Client story


Bring your team to our Gen AI Studios to


assess your readiness for responsible AI.


Get in touch
Annotations